Add _flush API (#7217)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/index-apis/flush.md

---
layout: default
title: Flush
parent: Index APIs
nav_order: 36
---

# Flush

**Introduced 1.0**
{: .label .label-purple }

> The Flush API manually flushes in-memory data from an index onto disk. This ensures that any memory from the index stored in the buffer persists on disk, as opposed to writing all buffer data to the disk, which can affect the performance of your cluster.

Reviewer: The Flush API permanently stores all the in-memory operation to the lucene index on disk. OpenSearch automatically performs the flush in background based on certain conditions such as the size of transaction log (controlled by `index.translog.flush_threshold_size`) vs performing for each operation for performance reasons. The operations that are flushed to lucene index are not needed to be maintained in the transaction log anymore to recover in the event of the process restart.

Author: @sohami: Does whether or not the indexing occured with Lucene matter in the cast of this API? In other words, is mentioning Lucene in the API definition required?

Reviewer: All the on-disk representation of the data is lucene index, hence the mention. Or we can say `... in-memory operation to the segments on disk. The operations that are flushed to the segments are not required....`. Also tagging @mgodwan from indexing team to take a second look at the document

> The Flush API manually flushes in-memory data from an index onto disk. This ensures that any memory from the index stored in the buffer persists on disk, as opposed to writing all buffer data to the disk, which can affect the performance of your cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
The Flush API takes all in-memory operations and stores them to segments on disk. Operations flushed to an index segment are no longer needed for transactions logs to recover in the event of a cluster restart. 

OpenSearch automatically performs flushes in the background based on certain conditions such as the size of the transaction log, controlled by the `index.translog.flush_threshold_size` setting. However, performing a manual flush operation can improve performance.
```

@sohami and @mgodwan: Thoughts?

Reviewer: 1. `are no longer needed **for** transactions logs` to `are no longer needed **in** transactions logs` ?
2. `However, performing a manual flush operation can improve performance` I don't think this is true in all the cases, so we should avoid generalizing it.

Author: @sohami: Why would someone need to manually flush their segments?

Author: We can leave it out if it makes things more confusing, that being said, I do think the flush mechanism would benefit from the additional context you're providing.

> The Flush API manually flushes in-memory data from an index onto disk. This ensures that any memeory from the index stored in the buffer persists on disk, as opposed to writing all buffer data to the disk, which can affect the performance of your cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
The Flush API manually flushes in-memory data from an index onto disk. This ensures that any memory from the index stored in the buffer persists on disk, as opposed to writing all buffer data to the disk, which can affect the performance of your cluster.
```

## Query parameters

The Flush API supports the following query parameters.

| Parameter | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `allow_no_indices` | Boolean | When `false`, the request returns an error if any wildcard expression or index alias targets any closed or missing indexes. Default is `true`. |
| `expand_wildcards` | String | Specifies the types of indexes to which wildcard expressions can expand. Supports comma-separated values. Valid values are: <br> - `all`: Expand to all open and closed indexes, including hidden indexes. <br> - `open`: Expand to open indexes. <br> - `closed`: Expand to closed indexes. <br> - `hidden`: Include hidden indexes when expanding. Must be combined with `open`, `closed`, or both. <br> - `none`: Do not accept wildcard expressions. <br> Default is `open`. |
| `force` | Boolean | When `true`, forces a flush to occur even when no changes to the index exist in-memory. Default is `true`. |
| `ignore_unavailable` | Boolean | When `true`, OpenSearch ignores missing or closed indexes. If `false`, OpenSearch returns an error if the force merge operation encounters missing or closed indexes. Default is `false`. |

> | `wait_if_ongoing` | Boolean | When `true`, the Flush API does not run while another flush request is active. When `false`, OpenSearch returns an error if another flush request is active. |

Reviewer: Defaults to `true`

> | `wait_if_ongoing` | Boolean | When `true`, the Flush API does not run while another flush request is active. When `false`, OpenSearch returns an error if another flush request is active. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `wait_if_ongoing` | Boolean | When `true`, the Flush API does not run while another flush request is active. When `false`, OpenSearch returns an error if another flush request is active. Default is `true`. |
```

---
layout: default
title: Flush
parent: Index APIs
nav_order: 36
---

# Flush

**Introduced 1.0**
{: .label .label-purple }

> The Flush API takes all in-memory operations and stores them to segments on disk. Operations flushed to an index segment are no longer needed in transaction logs during a cluster restart because these operations are now stored in the Lucene Index. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Flush API stores all in-memory operations to segments on disk. Operations flushed to an index segment are no longer needed in transaction logs during a cluster restart because these operations are now stored in the Lucene index. 
```

> The Flush API takes all in-memory operations and stores them to segments on disk. Operations flushed to an index segment are no longer needed in transaction logs in the event of a cluster restart because these operations are now stored in the Lucene Index. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Flush API takes all in-memory operations and stores them to segments on disk. Operations flushed to an index segment are no longer needed in transaction logs during a cluster restart because these operations are now stored in the Lucene Index. 
```

> OpenSearch automatically performs flushes in the background based on conditions like transaction log size, which is controlled by the `index.translog.flush_threshold_size` setting. Use the Flush API sparingly, for example, for manual restarts or freeing up memory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch automatically performs flushes in the background based on conditions like transaction log size, which is controlled by the `index.translog.flush_threshold_size` setting. Use the Flush API sparingly, for example, for manual restarts or to free up memory.
```

> OpenSearch automatically performs flushes in the background based on certain conditions such as the size of the transaction log, controlled by the `index.translog.flush_threshold_size` setting. Therefore, the use of the Flush API should only be reserved for rare instances, such as a manual cluster restart or freeing up in-memory disk space.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OpenSearch automatically performs flushes in the background based on conditions like transaction log size, which controlled by the `index.translog.flush_threshold_size` setting. Use the Flush API sparingly, for example, for manual restarts or freeing up memory.
```

| `force` | Boolean | When `true`, forces a flush to occur even when no changes to the index exist in-memory. Default is `true`. |
| `ignore_unavailable` | Boolean | When `true`, OpenSearch ignores missing or closed indexes. If `false`, OpenSearch returns an error if the force merge operation encounters missing or closed indexes. Default is `false`. |
| `wait_if_ongoing` | Boolean | When `true`, the Flush API does not run while another flush request is active. When `false`, OpenSearch returns an error if another flush request is active. Default is `true`. |

## Example request: Flush a specific index

The following example flushes an index named `shakespeare`:

```
POST /shakespeare/_flush
```

## Example request: Flush all indexes

The following example flushes all indexes in a cluster:

```
POST /_flush
```

> ## Response

Author: ```suggestion
## Example response
```

> OpenSearch responds with the number of shards that acknowledged the flush request, number of shards that completed the request, and number of shards that failed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenSearch responds with the number of shards that acknowledged the flush request, the number of shards that completed the request, and the number of shards that failed:
```

> OpenSearch responds with the number of shards that acknowledged the flush request, how many shards completed the request, and how many failed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OpenSearch responds with the number of shards that acknowledged the flush request, number of shards that completed the request, and number of shards that failed:
```
